should accept yourself just the way you
are what does that say about who I
should become is that just now off the
table because I'm already good enough in
every way so am I done or something get
the hell up get your act together adopt
some responsibility put your life
together develop a vision unfold all
those manifold possibilities that lurk
within be a force for good in the world
and that'll be the adventure of your
life
[Music]
we are getting dragged into the band saw
like one inch of cloth at a time right
and there's movements forward
incrementally towards the abyss with the
continued provision of more and more
sophisticated Weaponry to the ukrainians
we're spending money like a drunken
sailor and and facilitating an endless
degree of criminal Enterprise and also
funneling money into the military
industrial complex at a heretofore
unprecedented rate we have no vision for
victory that's laid out that's realistic
in any real sense and we also have no
vision for what might constitute peace
it's hard for me to see how this doesn't
culminate in at least a significant
Regional war and heaven forbid a World
War that's why we've we've got to turn
this around as far as why it's happening
the only thing I can speculate here is
that
for whatever reason it's popular it's
popular with the American people they
see many see it as a conflict between
good and evil the problem with this
narrative this story that allows the
effort to be so popular as popular as it
has been so far is that I don't think
the Amer who are being told the whole
story I don't think they're being
adequately advised as to the risks
[Music]
hello everyone I have the pleasure today
of speaking with Senator Mike Lee from
Utah Mike and I have spoken before on my
podcast we've got to know each other a
little bit as a consequence of being
involved in various Endeavors and uh I
thought he would be an excellent person
to help me think through well what I'm
interested in not least today is how to
understand the situation in relationship
to Russia and the Ukraine because I
don't understand it so Mike I'm going to
ask you some questions about that
situation what's been disturbing me most
particularly I would say is that
I don't understand what it is that the
West is aiming at precisely you know
when when you're aiming at Victory
because that's hypothetically the aim
here
you need to specify what a victory would
look like and so I've been trying to
game that in my imagination it's like if
we got what we wanted whatever that
might be what would that look like in
any realistic sense and so what I see
being emitted from the Biden
Administration and for the people who
are
beating the pro-war drum hard and that
would include my idiot government in
Canada is a very banal form of dimwit
flag waving which is well the ukrainians
are great Democrats and we're supporting
democracy and we're on the side of
freedom and I heard a fair bit of that
in about Afghanistan and I heard a fair
bit about that relationship to Iraq and
it isn't obvious to me that that worked
out particularly well and I don't buy
the the shallow moralizing flag waving
and Ukraine is this country that is so
corrupt that it's almost Beyond
Comprehension and so the idea that
there's an easy Pathway to democracy
there is utterly preposterous
which isn't to say that no I'm
without my qualms let's say on the
Russian side Russia's being a very
Troublesome country for a good 150 years
and probably before that and so
it's not like the situation is
straightforward but here's what I've
been walking through in my imagination
and you can help me maybe clarify where
my thinking is inappropriate so
the Hawks that I've talked to on the
American side have basically laid out
the most reasonable case for war for me
I suppose and have claimed for example
that it's in our best interest in the
west to keep Russia relatively weak
militarily to minimize the threat they
might pose now and in the future and
this war gives us an opportunity to do
that just that to Cull their
conventional forces and to keep Russia
back on its heels which is a different
proposition than expanding democracy in
Ukraine and so I have some problems with
that approach conceptually because I
think that's what the Allies did to
Germany after World War one we attempted
to weaken it and then to keep it weak
and that was not a good idea and you
know history doesn't repeat but it
Rhymes as they say and so
I think it's dangerous to weaken Russia
partly because Russia has natural
resources that we actually need
especially natural gas which produces
the ammonia that feeds four billion
people and they produce ammonia and they
produce food high quality wheat in
particular and so a devastated Russia
doesn't seem to me necessarily in the
long-term interests of either the west
or the planet and then on the
alternative side well let's say Putin is
deposed because he loses this war in a
conventional sense and a new leader
emerges
the probability as far as I'm concerned
that we'll get a new leader in Russia in
the midst of chaos who's better than
potent is virtually zero given the
historical precedence and then if we
reduce Russia to something like a state
of chaos which also could happen and the
country fragments in the worst case
scenario then we have a situation where
we have a fragmented Russia with 25 000
nuclear weapons uh floating around let's
say and that also seems like a rather
dismal outcome so like what the hell is
our plan for victory here as far as
you're concerned look I think starting
out at least from the U.S perspective
the idea was first to deter Putin from
invading once he invaded the idea was to
weaken him and cause him to decide
relatively quickly that it wasn't worth
the effort and to retreat with good
reason people in the United States and
in many other countries one want to make
sure that we stop Vladimir Putin he's a
bad guy he's someone who has Ambitions
that aren't good and so everyone sees in
him uh the the this bad person which he
is who could do a whole lot of bad
things the problem is I think we're long
past the moment where what we're doing
uh is going to do anything to stop him
from aggressing if anything we've made
it worse we've driven him into the arms
of China and that loving of embrace that
Alliance that's resulted from it
economically with energy uh in many
respects ultimately I I think militarily
that could create a much bigger problem
than existed prior to the beginning of
this war
and so look he is a a bad guy he I wish
he would go away but I'm not sure that
the U.S involvement in it
um is necessarily going to endure to the
benefit of the American people and I
think we've lost sight of that precisely
because of the factor you described I I
don't think there is a coherent cogent
game plan and end result of peace that
we're trying to get out nor do I think
that what we've done so far has brought
us peace quite to the contrary it's it's
continued the effort okay so you brought
up the China argument so here's a way of
conceptualizing that I mean China has
its problems to say the least they're
facing a demographic collapse their real
estate market is to call it shaky is to
say almost nothing they're actually
facing by Chinese standards quite the
Rebellion on the home front I mean
things don't look that bright for the
Chinese Communist party and having them
Ally with Russia I would say seems to be
something that could be in their favor
economically because it also it gives
them access to the immense resources of
Russia and if you think China is uh
a good Ally of the west then you've got
another thing coming anything that's
done to help them survive in their
current form the CCP in particular the
Chinese Communist party is definitely
not in our best interests so having
Russia establish an alliance with China
that helps China limp along into the
future I mean that's a country that
supports North Korea which is about all
you need to say about the Chinese
Communist party and so that seems like a
dim-witted strategy in the long run
especially because China is at least as
much of a threat now it's more of a
threat in any reasonable sense than than
Russia should be I mean talk about
systems out of Alliance we're not Allied
very well with the Russians
philosophically let's say but we are
absolutely not aligned with the Chinese
so that seems like a Preposterous
Endeavor and it's an uneasy alliance
between the Chinese and the Russians
it's not a natural Alliance we'd really
have to force both the Chinese and the
Russians into a corner in some real
sense in order for them to be able to
hammer out something approximating an
agreement so that seems rather
dim-witted so and then let's also talk
about the cost of War so first of all
how much money do you think the U.S has
poured into Ukraine so far 113 billion
dollars to date 113 13 million dollars
is an enormous sum of money this
represents a sum of money that's I I
think between 20 and 25 times what
Ukraine typically spends on defense in a
typical year uh this is a sum of money
roughly double nearly double of what
Russia spends on defense in a typical
two-year period And I believe it's an
it's even 30 40 percent larger than what
Russia spent on defense last year given
that you know they had a significant war
effort going on
what concerns me there Jordan is that
we're getting into this
with our funding and with our
contribution of weapons if we're going
to get involved uh through what could
barely be described by some or perceived
by some as a proxy war
we need to understand what our objective
is and if the United States uh
we're supposed to have a declaration of
war before we get involved in that this
becomes especially important uh
especially important when you're dealing
with a near-peer nuclear-armed
geopolitical adversary these guys have
got nukes and to say they've got nukes
uh is a vast understatement uh they've
got a lot of nukes and so we've got to
be really really careful When
approaching that monster and I don't
think we're showing caution in that
regard
okay so a couple of things there the
first thing we might want to make these
numbers reasonable or realistic for
people so 113 billion dollars is twelve
hundred dollars per full person family
in the U.S so that's what every every
family in the U.S is now spending 100 a
month on the Ukraine war now now now
there's an additional problem with that
too because Ukraine by everyone's
standards including
um such reliable sources let's say it
has the New York Times everyone knew
perfectly well before we started flag
waving how corrupt Ukraine was and now
113 billion dollars has been dumped into
that economy with what I presume has
been an extraordinarily lack
extraordinary lack of oversight and so
my sense is strong that God Only Knows
What proportion of that money has been
funneled into truly reprehensible
criminal Enterprises and if you think
it's none of it then you're naive Beyond
Comprehension and so and when my when
the government spends money like a
drunken sailor which is what it's doing
in Ukraine you can be bloody sure that
most of that money isn't ending up where
it's supposed to it certainly didn't on
the kovid front for example I think 40
percent of covid government claims for
subsidy were fraudulent something like
40 percent and if it's only 40 of what
we're spending in Ukraine that's going
to criminals that would be a bloody
Miracle it's probably more like 95 five
percent and then there's Kickbacks to
what Eisenhower described as the
military industrial complex which he
warned about back in what 1960 was it
three something like that and a little
earlier pointing out close
something late 50s early 60s pointing
out that that emergent
collusion
at the upper echelons between let's say
defense contractors and government was
what he believed would pose the most
signal threat to the stability of well
American democracy certainly but also
the world in the decades moving forward
and so some people are making an awful
lot of money off this war
um and that they might consider that
extraordinarily advantageous in the
short term but we're facilitating
criminal Enterprises on a scale pretty
much unheard of in the in the past and
we we have no idea exactly what our
money is being spent on in relationship
to uh the furtherance of the
military-industrial complex and so
that's also a negative consequence of
the war that that this false you know
democracy flag waving masks and that
that strikes me as additionally naive
over and above the fact that we're
flirting with like as far as I'm
concerned we're already in World War
Three the issue is how far we're going
to take it the notion that this is a war
between Russia and Ukraine it's like
just is there anybody who believes that
and then you also pointed out something
that
people should be jumping up and down and
screaming about in the United States
which is that
well there's no declaration of war here
and so but you're in a war and so
how the hell did that happen well we're
pretending it's not a war well
I don't know if that's sufficient reason
to bypass the constitutionally is it
constitutionally mandated requirement
that war is declared by Congress yes
it's one of the things that changed in
our form of government after we left the
United Kingdom uh one of the things that
we made sure was that the people's
elected representatives in Congress and
not the chief executive would have the
power to take us to war now to be clear
Congress did appropriate this money so
it's not as if Congress were bypassed
and deciding to send money to Ukraine my
point is not that it happened entirely
by the executive it is rather that what
we're doing is tantamount to war it has
many of the same consequences as war and
so I fear that we're not adequately
debating And discussing as Congress
funds these Endeavors the the fact that
this puts us in a de facto position of
War and then you to your point about the
corruption the possibility of waste
fraud abuse uh and another corrupt
developments with this money
last weekend zelenski was quoted I don't
speak Ukrainian so I'm relying on
interpreters but he was quoted as
suggesting it was somehow dangerous for
Americans to question how that 113
billion dollars was being spent in
Ukraine that that's dangerous well I
think that suggestion that it's
dangerous is itself Beyond dangerous and
we ought to be very very leery of
anybody who describes it that way okay
so when this money is spent we're
talking about a tremendous amount of
money what exactly you know it's not
like there's bales of money being sent
on aircraft uh on on aircraft transport
with aircraft transport to to to Ukraine
the money is being spent on
good Services military equipment who
exactly are the recipients of this money
like it's not the brave Ukrainian people
it's not like there are Americans on the
ground they're handing out dollar bills
to Starving ukrainians in the streets
right which is I suppose the naive image
of the same kind of flag waving
pro-democracy idiocy that we're seeing
the propagandists generate where do you
think this money is going and does
anyone know
yeah so it's it's outlined in the
legislation we don't know that
particulars of exactly where it's going
but the the generalities of it uh are
laid out in the three or four pieces of
legislation that have been passed in
order to keep the funding going uh in
some instances the money
um uh goes to to uh uh the U.S military
in order to acquire weapons so that they
can send weapons over to Ukraine and
other instances it goes to other U.S
agencies uh that are providing some form
of relief or another to the Ukrainian
people
um it's spread out in Myriad ways and I
think some of those expenditures are are
more defensible than others but uh in
the final analysis it is a huge sum of
money and that's money if it has the
ability to be corrupted even where it's
not cash in some instances uh uh they're
they're getting money in other instances
they're getting material but regardless
that material has a value attached to it
and so that's not to suggest there's no
corruption possible there
right right so if you had to make
a strong
case for the kind of NATO involvement
because it's obviously not just the U.S
although the U.S is the primary mover
here probably followed by the UK I would
say that's how it appears to me
um if you had to make a strong case for
what NATO is doing
what would the case be I mean we talked
about the necessity of deterring Russian
aggression
especially in relationship to Ukraine
it's do you believe that it's reasonable
to assume that Russia presents a
credible threat to the Integrity of the
NATO alliance or the West outside this
specific case of Ukraine and I mean we
should point out that Ukraine and Russia
have been integrally tied together
for the entire history of both countries
it's there's less separation there than
there is between Canada and the U.S and
we're two countries that are very
tightly tied together so
the the relationship between Russia and
Ukraine is not of Thoroughly independent
sovereign states with an immense history
of political and cultural difference
so so
the the involvement of Russia in Ukraine
is unbelievably complex and vice versa
but we might say well Russia is an
expansionist state in the style of the
Soviet Union
um and therefore poses a potential
threat to the Integrity of eastern and
western Europe and of course the
Russians made all sorts of incursions
into Eastern Europe so there's some
historical president for that but and so
we could say well you could make a case
for keeping that threat at Bay is there
another case that can be made for our
involvement in this war
yeah so look the the mindset of the
objectives of NATO here
there has been a legitimate Viewpoint
that suggests that if Putin moves into
Ukraine if he takes over some or
eventually all of Ukraine uh or even
just part of it that this could reflect
uh
uh the fact that he's hell-bent somehow
on expansion is on an expansionist
ambition and that that expansionist
ambition is going to spill over into uh
other NATO countries so Ukraine isn't in
NATO but it is as some describe it NATO
adjacent and so there is concern that
this could spill over into those
countries I get that and I I understand
that we have an obligation as the United
States to defend our NATO allies and
protect them the problem with that is
it's at once very speculative we don't
know that to be the case and as you
point out there is a lot more history uh
between Russia and Ukraine especially
parts of Ukraine a lot more of a
cultural historical uh connection in
some cases a linguistic connection
between Russia and Ukraine then there is
a lot of these other countries but
secondly we could just as easily it
seems to me be
bringing about the very thing we're
trying to avoid now I I don't count
myself as an expert in this area by any
means I'm just trying to outline the two
viewpoints because the other Viewpoint
is also valid which is that if we get
involved in this if we fund a proxy war
against that same adversary Russia oh we
could be inviting more of the same
especially if as I suspect I I don't
know that the United States has the
intestinal fortitude to go into a
full-blown war with Russia and if it
doesn't then what happens then what have
we done have we provoked Russia to
become even more expansionist could that
undermine the security of our NATO
allies even more than just staying out
altogether would have done I I don't
know the answer to these questions but
the fact that they're not being
seriously asked and debated and
discussed in the halls of Congress is
deeply troubling to me as is that
whenever anybody including me raises
questions like this uh were immediately
tagged on Twitter for example uh as
Putin lovers which is absurd and
Preposterous I have a distinct loathing
for the man I think he's awful but it's
because he's awful not in spite of it
that I I've got real concerns about our
involvement here I'm not sure it's going
to do anything like what those
advocating it believe it will do for us
or our allies for that matter
so so Putin as well this is an
additional complication Putin is
actually quite popular among Russians as
far as anybody can tell and part of the
reason for that and I've read a lot of
his speeches over the last 10 years
trying to understand how he thinks
because my sense of people generally is
that they do what they say they're going
to do it's very hard to
generate a facade of continual lies for
decades to say one thing publicly and
even privately in speeches and then to
go off and conjure up an entire new
theory of the world and operate within
those confines Putin is popular partly
because he's been presenting this war
against Ukraine as uh defense of the
Traditional Values not only of Russia
but also of the West and because Putin
is no fan of let's say the woke idiocy
that script the west and that's a
sentiment that's echoed quite profoundly
among the Eastern Europeans who would
otherwise be our staunch allies and who
generally are and so that's the drum
he's been able to beat to keep himself
uh popular in Russia and you can be
cynical and say that that's merely
maneuvering propagandistic maneuvering
on Putin's part but I think the simpler
explanation is that he actually believes
that the West have become untrustworthy
on that front and is aren't and he isn't
interested in the accursion of that kind
of ideology into the into the Russian
sphere
um
so I'm not exactly sure what to make of
that and then the notion that we're
enabling the very conflict that we're
trying to avoid brings me back to the
problem I had at the beginning of our
discussion which is I can't figure out
what the hell constitutes our Victory
here it's like even if we do win what in
the world does that mean we want a
permanently weakened Russia on the
Eastern front and do we want them so
weak that they start to lose their
integrity as an economy and then what do
we do on the energy front for example or
on the fertilizer or food front and I
don't see as you just said I don't see
anybody talking about these things with
any degree of seriousness it's actually
quite jaw-dropping to me that what we
are getting is
uh it's something like governance by
single Pixel tweet you know we're in it
with the freedom loving ukrainians and
like as far as I can tell there aren't
held a lot of those by the way we're in
it with the freedom loving ukrainians
till the end it's like well what do you
mean the end here I don't understand
what a Russian loss would look like
I mean if the Americans were on the
other side there's no damn way there's
no way you guys would lose
like you might not win and maybe no one
will win but you certainly wouldn't lose
and am I missing something here or is
this is is this discussion as shallow as
it appears your comment that when you
whenever you say anything that questions
the story that's being laid forth about
the war you get immediately labeled you
know as a satanic Putin worshiper so to
speak all that is to me is evidence that
this debate is being handled at a very
juvenile level that's what happened in
World War One by the way I mean people
reacted incredibly stupidly as World War
one unfolded and got their arm caught in
the band saw let's say and tore the
entire continent apart for four years
for for basically no gain whatsoever
that's right so it looks to me like
that's the right historical analog here
and you know that's that's exactly right
I think we have a very high potential
here of everyone losing a lot and what
disturbs me greatly is that I I have yet
to are to have anyone articulate to me
any sound uh argument for what the end
looks like what the how this culminates
in making the world a better place in in
added peace to the world
um what you you certainly don't hear
that within the US government I haven't
heard that nor do you hear peace talks
going on let's let's find a way to uh
resolve this so that we have as a few
people dying at the end of the day as
possible and we don't hear that at all
what you do here uh it hasn't been that
long since you heard Solinski and other
people in his government talking about
things like you know this is going to
end with with our tanks Ukrainian tanks
on moscow's uh uh Red Square now that
raises all sorts of questions like how
is that going to happen whose tanks will
those be will those be American Tanks i
i that's that's certainly not a vision
shared by Americans I don't think I've
never heard our president or any of my
colleagues in the senate or counterparts
in the House of Representatives uh uh
envisioned that kind of outcome I don't
know what victory looks like under their
plan and that's deeply concerning
because if you if you don't have an end
in mind you're going to be taking in all
sorts of of strange directions I
guarantee you Putin's got an end in mind
and it's not favorable to us
well so what what do you suppose Putin
would be willing to settle for and and
what do you think he could sell his
people as a sufficient Victory if peace
talks were to proceed now I also know by
the way as far as it's possible to know
these things and I've been told by very
reliable observers who should be in a
position to know that there were peace
negotiations on the table last March and
that those were scuttled primarily on
the American side by the Biden
Administration so that's rather
disturbing and so I it would also be
very useful for me to be able to
conceptualize something approximating
what the West might accept as terms for
peace given that as you pointed out the
ultimate extension of the war in the
direction that zielinski's more extreme
statements have indicated well it's just
a non-starter first of all many people
have tried in the last 200 years to
advance their tanks all the way to
Moscow and that tended to end very badly
for anyone who tried to do it and that
happened a minimum of three times and
the same thing happened every time and
then we should also point out with 100
certainty that there isn't a chance in
hell of Ukrainian tanks say made in the
west ending up in Red Square without the
Russians doing everything that's in
their power to make absolutely certain
that that never happens
so yeah no so
go ahead
well I I was I I'm interested in the
fact that there seems to be virtually no
negotiation whatsoever on the Peace
front you know this should be Biden's
number one concern as far as I'm
concerned it's like what the hell are we
doing here in the west why aren't we
negotiating for peace you know on our
terms let's say because I think the
Russians are in a bit of a corner with
with 100 percent uh purposeful intent
and then so so let's talk about that why
aren't we negotiating negotiating and
then let's also talk about
how this war escalates as it moves
forward and when it actually moves from
a proxy war which it is now to whatever
we now are willing to Define as an
actual War so let's start with the why
are do you know of any negotiations that
are occurring in good faith on the Peace
front and if not like why not no I don't
and it's perplexing you know in the
early uh months of this conflict uh
there was speculation in Washington I
don't know how much truth to it but
there was some speculation in Washington
that a negotiated peace could look
something like um formal recognition uh
by the west of uh the Russian occupation
from eight or nine years ago in Crimea
and then uh perhaps a partial
partitioning of parts of the
russian-speaking areas of the donbos
region and that there would be perhaps
not formal recognition there but a
negotiated ceasefire of Russia's
occupation of some of those areas but no
one has been talking about any of those
outcomes for many months I if there are
peace negotiations going on which I I
really hope they are they are I haven't
heard any of them I haven't heard about
them and they're certainly not inclined
to talk about them in public and that's
one of the things that's most concerning
about this is that you're picking a
fight with a huge bear uh and look
people were fond in the United States of
saying you know Russia's economy can't
support a full-blown War yeah well
that's true true but as you pointed out
there's no end to their nuclear
stockpile and their their weapons do
pose a formidable threat uh to the
entire world should they choose to use
them that's why we've got to be so
careful here so to enter into that
without a strategy for achieving peace
for a resolution of it is a Fool's
errand uh if ever there were one
right so okay so here's what we've
established so far as we're spending
money like a drunken sailor and and
facilitating an endless degree of
criminal Enterprise and also funneling
money into the military industrial
complex at an heretofore unprecedented
rate we have no vision for victory
that's laid out that's realistic in any
real sense and we also have no vision
for what might constitute peace
so then you again you have to throw up
your hands and think just what the hell
is going on here and I really can't
understand it as much as I try I like
what in the world are we doing is it
truly as shallow as posturing morally in
this opinion poll driven way that says
well once again we're champions of
democracy and freedom and you know we're
putting our military might Behind These
wonderful Freedom Fighters which as I
said are ingenuely certain Supply in
Ukraine it's hard for me to believe that
we can possibly possibly be that
preposterously shallow and stupid but
and venal and greedy as well but it does
seem to be the simplest explanation for
for what's going on
um how do you see like the other thing
I'm seeing is that we are getting
dragged into the bandsaw like one inch
of cloth at a time right and there's
movements forward incrementally towards
the abyss with the continued provision
of more and more sophisticated Weaponry
to the ukrainians now at some point that
becomes war and I suppose that that the
point of no return is reached when when
it's when aircraft are being supplied or
when there's what there's movement of
NATO troops on the ground it's something
like that how do you see this if this
doesn't
cease if it doesn't move towards peace
even if the ukrainians do advance and
the Russians Retreat so we're winning
how do you see this war escalating in
the most realistic sense over the next
few months well look uh the early hope
was that Putin would get bored or Putin
would get frustrated or he'd get worried
and then that he would withdraw I don't
see any of this happening right now and
so I I uh unless the United States and
other
serious outside actors who have played a
serious role in it so far
dedicate their efforts to trying to
resolve this uh trying to achieve a
peaceful resolution I I it's hard for me
to see how this doesn't culminate in at
least a significant Regional war and
heaven forbid a World War that's why
we've we've got to turn this around as
far as why it's happening as far as why
there continues to be
U.S support for it in the absence of a
peace plan the only thing I can
speculate here is that
for whatever reason it's popular it's
popular with the American people they
see many see it as a conflict between
good and evil Russia is the villain
Ukraine is the uh innocent victim The
Virtuous victim and the United States is
the hero it can uh from a vantage point
thousands of miles away use its immense
Force it's immense resources financially
and militarily to try to influence this
supposedly without a single American
life being put at risk the problem with
this narrative this story that allows
the effort to be so popular as popular
as it has been so far is that I don't
think the American people are being told
the whole story I don't think they're
being adequately advised as to the risks
you know if you uh you go to a doctor
you go to a surgeon who proposes a
surgical
intervention of some sort uh usually
there will be a series of benefits and
risks that the doctor would weigh out
with you going to war should involve
nothing less than that certainly and I I
don't think the American Press is
reporting on what the risks are many
politicians are very content in fact
they're they're really eager
to continue to perpetuate this uh um
villain victim hero uh Paradigm because
it sells it's it it it's it's swelling
it rings a certain
um uh populist chord within us
but I think over time that's going to
fade it's going to fade because among
other things we we've got problems here
that are becoming apparent you know
Jordan last year at the United States
just just 2022 alone we we lost 110
000 Americans to fentanyl poisoning that
fentanyl is being manufactured in Mexico
being uh flooded across our borders by
the drug cartels as they traffic humans
and with them drugs including fentanyl
000 Americans died of that last year uh
looked up a a un report recently you
know how many civilians have been killed
in Ukraine since this conflict started
if the source from the U.N is accurate
it's less than 8 000 uh uh since this
war started and so it's not to say that
that isn't tragic it's not to say that
they are the same they are not they're
very different but I I think the
American people are are starting to see
number one that there are grave risks uh
uh to what we're doing in Ukraine and
that unless we decide not to we're going
to get drawn into a massive war yeah
well it's a okay so you have a
convenient distraction hypothesis there
I mean one of the things that really
uphold me in recent weeks you know I was
remembering that speech that Biden gave
in front of the red stage you know with
the military people behind them and not
creepy at all not creepy at all no no no
no well and I have some insiders in the
Democrat Party talking to me about why
such things happen and I know that
Biden's idiot advisors were playing with
this I mean this is so Preposterous but
it happens to be the case with this dark
Brandon idea the propagandistic idea
that Biden has been seen by people as
relatively ineffectual in the sort of
classic masculine sense and it was time
to crank up the imagery in relationship
to his shadow side like his sort of
militaristic tough guy Shadow side and
if you go look up Darth Brandon on the
web you can see all these memes that
people have produced putting them
forward is kind of an action hero and
this is exactly what I saw with him
posturing in Ukraine he was wearing his
black trench coat and his uh you know
military Ray-Ban sunglasses with
reflective coating and there's a nice
air raid siren going on in the
background and it looks to me like it
looks to me like shallow narrative drama
of the sort that you just described and
then that makes for a very convenient
distraction when there were important
things that should be being dealt with
that aren't being dealt with and I do
believe that the people who posture and
strut in front of the world stage and
who think image is everything are
willing to do whatever they need to do
to put forward the Right image
independent of the material reality that
brings me to a specific question I had
for you too you know I was surprised
actually when I reached out to you to
talk about the Russian war that you
would actually speak not because I don't
think you have the courage to because I
think you do but I don't see there is
anything in this for you at least in the
short term except loss as you already
pointed out if anybody at the moment
stands up and says hey guys I don't know
what the hell we're doing here but uh
something's rotten in the state of
Denmark all you get out of that is uh
the kind of abuse that's generally
reserved for people who are being
straightforwardly traitorous you know
because we've already decided who the
good guys are here and it's us and you
know if you're anti-war in Ukraine
you're pro-putin and God you could
hardly that's as bad as being pro-hitler
let's say or being pro Stalin and so why
in the world are you willing to talk
about this so yeah there's a lot to lose
uh by talking about it there's far more
to lose by not talking about it look
Jordan I can't know what I know uh and
not say something because what we stand
to lose if we say nothing and if we
continue down our current path is so
much greater than whatever discomfort a
politician can endure uh when people uh
scream things that aren't true uh this
really is a significant problem and and
I don't mean to minimize in any way the
threat that Vladimir Putin May pose to
the world I I actually feel the way I do
not in spite of the fact that he's a
villain but because of it because he's a
villain because he's got nuclear weapons
uh uh uh more than anybody else in the
world in terms of counting up the number
of weapons the number of warheads
um we've got to be very careful and
because he's a villain we've got to make
sure we know what we're doing if we're
gonna fight
for Ukraine on Ukraine's behalf to the
point where we're committing ourselves
essentially uh in order to defend our
own honor now that we've sorted into
this if we're committing ourselves to
war we need to be clear about that with
the American people otherwise this is
going to cost a lot of lives
okay so so on the GOP side of things are
you like are you a lone voice in your
depiction of the danger that's
associated with the escalation of this
war or what's the situation on the
Republican side in terms of attitude
towards this war is there anything
approximating a consensus how much of
the Republican party is more hawk-like
um what's the situation on the ground on
the Republican side there's a small
handful of Republicans uh but a growing
number of Republicans who are starting
to
Express concerns a few of us in the
Senate uh probably uh two or three dozen
maybe four dozen in the house who have
started to express concerns about it uh
and I I think the number is building
because people realize uh what's at
stake
well what's surprising though Jordan is
the number of Democrats who are not
raising these questions I've got allies
uh who I've worked with for years on the
Democratic side
um issues dealing with the War Powers
I've teamed up with Democrats I've
teamed up with some very unlikely allies
like uh like Bernie Sanders uh we we've
run measures under the War Powers
Resolution uh the first time the War
Powers Act was successfully invoked by
passing a resolution you know in that
case to get us out of the undeclared war
in Yemen uh uh was with with me and with
Bernie Sanders but this time around I
don't see any Democrats in the congress
not in the house not in the Senate who
are at least not publicly raising the
concern saying hey maybe we shouldn't be
doing this I hope that will change I
frankly expect that to change but it I
haven't seen it yet
we'll be right back first we wanted to
give you a sneak peek at Jordan's new
series Exodus
so the Hebrews created history as we
know it
you don't get away with anything and so
you might think you can bend the fabric
of reality and that you can treat people
instrumentally and that you can bow to
the Tyrant and violate your conscience
without cost you will pay the piper it's
going to call you out of that slavery
into Freedom even if that pulls you into
the desert
see that there's something else going on
here that is far more Cosmic and deeper
than what you can imagine the highest
ethical
Spirit to which we're beholden is
presented precisely as that spirit that
allies itself with the cause of Freedom
against tyranny I want villains to get
punished but do you want the villains to
learn before they have to pay the
ultimate price that's such a Christian
question
well you'd think the lefties would at
least be worried about government
corporate military-industrial collusion
right at minimum now we've seen this
weird shift on the left too because
we've also seen the left radically
support big Pharma which is definitely
not something I ever thought I would see
in my lifetime it's so utterly
preposterous but independent of the
other risks that the war presents the
risk of dumping 113 billion dollars into
the hands of the corporate military the
corporate part of the military
industrial complex you'd think would be
something that would raise the hackles
of let's say people like AOC and Bernie
Sanders and as you said there's been
radio silence on that front or perhaps
even the opposite of that like
full-fledged support for the you know
the uh the brave Ukrainian Democrats and
those on the side of democracy in
Ukraine let's say so that seems a bit
Preposterous now you and I also talked
about the fact that there are material
risks in the escalation of this war to
the Integrity of the American state you
know you're not a big government
Advocate and anytime there is a war what
you generally see is not only a
tremendous amount of tax money dumped
into the hands of the corporate side of
the military-industrial complex but a
huge growth in government bureaucracy
and overreach that's very seld ruled
back so where what do you see
um unfolding as a danger on that front
the modern nation-state by necessity
when it when it fights Wars it
necessarily needs to consolidate as much
power as possible and so that
concentration of power tends to cause
the government to become larger taxes to
be more intrusive and and I can use the
word taxes here broadly because in the
United States the way we Finance our
government more government spending and
ends up producing a backdoor invisible
tax because we've just been inflating
our currency
and people are are making the same
amount of money but it it buys less and
once that happens in order to fund a war
uh when the war ends to the degree it
ends government tends not to recede the
taxes tend to be in place at least for
quite a while and the general levels of
government funding
might Retreat some but never do they
return to pre-war levels there was a
Harvard Professor named Roger Porter who
wrote a book about this about 30 years
ago called war in the rise of the state
and I think we're seeing it on display
so yeah that's that is another concern
is that as as we do these things we
become accustomed to spending this much
money for Ukraine some of which is
funneled through this or that entity
within the state department or the U.S
u.said program or or some other program
through the Department of Defense
some of those funding levels might go
down but I doubt they will ever Retreat
to the levels where they were prior to
this particular conflict and that's a
deep concern it might also explain why
some progressives are more inclined to
be supportive of this along with the
fact that it happens to be their
president a Democrat who's in office at
the time if this were Trump doing this
uh I can only imagine
there'd be many of them at least would
be calling bloody horror over it
right yeah well Trump and his recent
statements have come out very
um bluntly because after all he is Trump
on the war front claiming such things as
with if he had been president this
wouldn't have happened which I think is
a somewhat credible claim but also that
if he was President which is a non-zero
possibility that he would end the war in
24 hours you know and I'm I'm not
remarking on that because I necessarily
regard the 24-hour claim is valid but I
am remarking on it because Trump has
come out very bluntly as opposed to this
war and also highlighting its dangers
and so that's an interesting development
I don't know what's happened with the
other people who've thrown their hat
into the Republican primary ring so far
on the foreign policy front do you have
any sense of that uh they've been fairly
quiet on this war as far as I can tell I
think he's the only one so far who has
raised a lot of uh concern as bluntly as
he did I believe Governor DeSantis has
expressed some concern with it I I don't
know exactly for how far he's delved
into it but this is an early indication
of where I think the Republican party is
going uh to be expressing as Donald
Trump and Ron DeSantis have both done
expressing skepticism about our
involvement in this conflict
okay okay so let's go back to the peace
issue now
because I've been trying to figure out
what might constitute
the broad low resolution outlines of an
acceptable
um stalemate or even well we could even
aim for a productive piece with Russia
over the long run and with the Ukraine
Integrity involved in that that would be
a lovely stretch goal let's say but what
you laid out was something like
recognition of Russia's dominion over
Crimea and then now so everyone who's
watching and listening knows that in
eastern Ukraine the majority of the
population are Russian native language
speakers now Ukraine in Ukrainian as a
language is quite allied semantically
with Russia so but there are a lot of
Russian speakers particularly in eastern
Ukraine and the Russians have claimed
that they have been targeted they have
been the targets of persecution for
their linguistic minority status or
within the broader Ukraine and that
that's been a problem and that part of
the reason Russia made its incursions
into Ukraine was to protect its people
it really regarded as
citizens in the broader sense now you
posited that one possibility on the
Peace front would not only be the
recognition of the Russian uh possession
of Crimea which happened about nine ten
years ago but also that the some of the
territories that are subject more to
territorial dispute in the East might be
placed on the negotiating table with
regards to Russian sovereignty and you
can imagine a situation where the deal
was well why don't we open up the
discussion to something like a true
plebiscite or referendum and let the
people in those areas vote for who they
would rather be allied with and if the
U.N could get its act together and act
something like a true uh objective
Arbiter which strikes me as highly
unlikely given the dysfunction of the UN
but in any case then the people of the
Dawn bass region for example could
exercise their right to
self-determination and that could be
part of the negotiating strategy now do
you think that that
tentative vision of what might
constitute a peace plan do you think
that that's
to put forward something like that is
indicative of the kind of weakness that
might embolden Putin I mean if we're
trying to be critical about that notion
it could perhaps and and as I said when
we talked about that a few minutes ago
this was speculation that occurred
during the first um uh two maybe three
quarters of
2022 speculation that that's that might
be where we ended up uh speculation on
that front has died down since then uh
particularly in the last month or two uh
as you've seen Ukraine making
increasingly bold uh sometimes
unrealistically bold assertions about
what it's what it wants to do for
example uh Ukraine has been talking
about the fact that it now wants to take
back Crimea completely and it wants to
completely uh Purge all of Russia from
anything that you know until fairly
recently was considered Ukraine uh
most of my colleagues even those who
were very supportive of uh this conflict
and of what we're doing with regard to
the conflict don't regard that as
realistic Russia is now so heavily
invested in Crimea but that that seems
unlikely I I wouldn't want to rule it
out but my point is this
given how aggressive I think it's worth
probably worth ruling out I mean there
isn't a chance that Russia will allow
Crimea to be retaken by Ukraine without
without pushing this right to the brink
right I I certainly don't see it and now
that Ukraine has been has gone into this
posture of being very aggressive talking
about taking back Crimea pushing them
out off the dunbas and everywhere else
and then sending tanks to moscow's Red
Square
if all of a sudden Ukraine were to do an
about face and say okay never mind we'll
give you recognition of Crimea now let's
talk about what else you would need to
do it perhaps Russia could see that as a
sign of weakness and then become further
embolden in his efforts that's why I
think this is so unfortunate and I think
one of the reasons why zelenski has felt
so comfortable being so bold in this is
that he's seen the the gravy train he's
he's seen the immense support from the
United States and I guess somewhat
understandably has assumed okay they're
they're with me I've got the world's
greatest superpower behind me so I can
afford to be bold but being bold in that
circumstance might just ultimately
worked to everyone's disadvantage
okay so I want to flip this now a bit if
you don't mind into a more metaphysical
domain so I've been recently
um completed a
seminar on the biblical Book of Exodus
with a group of Scholars in Miami and
that's available on The Daily wire plus
platform the first eight of those and
the last nine will be released very soon
and one of the things we talked about
given that we were discussing the book
of Exodus were was the nature and the
meaning of the Ten Commandments and one
of the most mysterious Commandments but
also one that I think is incredibly
Jermaine at the moment is do not take
the lord's name in vain now you know
Skeptics listing might say why in the
world are we talking about such Arcane
matters but the reason we are is because
I think you can make a very strong case
that the Commandments constitute part of
the
set of implicit
and explicit a priority axioms that
govern the polity of free western states
and
in any case their Elementary moral rules
that's one way of thinking about it do
not murder for example that seems you
know reasonable do not envy what your
neighbor has so no covetousness which
would be a good thing for envious people
contemplate for a very long period of
time but this do not take the lord's
name in vain it's very interesting one
because people generally mean think that
means don't swear
you know don't say God damn or something
like that and that isn't what it means
what it means is do not assign holy
motivations
to things you're doing for your own
nefarious purposes that's what it means
and I think that's the cardinal sin of
our time
and that's what people do when they
claim unearned moral virtue so moral
virtue is very hard to establish and you
can take it out of the religious domain
and say that your moral virtue is
actually the same as your social
reputation
now it's a little more complicated than
that but if you're a good person and you
act productively and generously and
reciprocally then you get a reputation
for doing so and that reputation is of
incredible value it means people will
trade with you they'll interact with you
they'll trust you it means that if you
run a business that your customers
regard you as reliable and will spread
your name around in a positive way and
that's brand value fundamentally in
every business person knows how
integrally important to their economic
success brand value it's that's earned
moral virtue honored moral virtue is
what you attempt to Garner if you're
narcissistic Psychopathic Machiavellian
and sadistic and that's the dark tetrad
group of personality traits and what I
see happening continually on the
political front at the moment and I
would say this is particularly the case
on the left is that there's a battle for
the acquisition of as much unearned
moral virtue as possible and I think
that's what's happening in this
situation is that we can collapse the
situation in Russia Ukraine into this
simple narrative which you just
described which is you know heroic
ukrainians
uh embattled by demonic Tyrant supported
by equally heroic allies that those
being the you know shallowly pro-west
pro-war westerners and that's a good
distraction for more serious issues you
mentioned the fentanyl crisis and that's
only one of many things that we might be
attending to carefully if we were wise
and it also enables everyone to stand up
and wave wave flags and be heroic and
virtuous without doing one bit of the
effort necessary to actually undertake
that in their life and I think that is a
compelling motivation for the acceptance
of these three pixel narratives
so and that just seems to be happening
continually and so we're walking
ourselves ever more blindly towards and
what incalculable Abyss proclaiming all
the way that we're only doing what good
people would be doing because after all
we're the good people and we have you
know nobility democracy and God on our
side so
well what do you think about that well
as I mean you're a religious man you're
a metaphysical thinker to some degree
what do you think about that as a set of
metaphysical presumptions you think that
bears any relationship to our current
circumstance without question it does
look biblical teachings and certainly
The Ten Commandments are instructive
they're anything but Arcane or esoteric
or outdated in in addition to regardless
of one's religious worldview
many of us as religious people also
regard them as Eternal truths that are
important to our Eternal progression and
salvation but even if you didn't if you
look at those Ten Commandments in
including those that you just described
they also outline a formula for
happiness uh they because they prescribe
the manner in which you interact with
your fellow human beings there's no more
evil that can come from humans than when
they view themselves as virtuous and
their actions in a particular cause as
so
unmitigatedly uh right that everyone
else must be wrong and when they're
confronting a fellow being or a multiple
fellow beings or a huge nation of them
as undeserving of virtue there's no more
evil that can come in this world than
when that Paradigm comes into play when
that contrast comes into play and so
that's one of the reasons why uh I I had
not heard uh before that particular
analysis of taking the lord's name in
vain when you add that to other
Commandments uh biblical Commandments
including uh covetousness for example uh
admonitions against theft against
adultery against killing those all kind
of have a consistent theme in them and
so yeah I I think that can come into
play in circumstances like these in fact
I think that's what drives most Wars
people start to think of themselves as
virtuous assign immense unmitigated
virtue to their own cause and assign
evil to their adversary and that's how
people get involved in massive conflicts
mm-hmm
yeah well that that's the two dimensions
of unearned moral virtue the first is
we're all good without any effort and so
that's pretty damn convenient because it
actually turns out to be an
extraordinarily difficult Endeavor to
actually be good because the devil's in
the details and you have to set your
house in order from the levels of the
personal all the way up through the
levels of the social to actually be good
and that requires a lifetime of
commitment but also
falling into that narrative also gives
you a very convenient place to put Satan
himself so instead of having to scrub
your own conscience and determine where
you might be let's say falling short of
the glory of God you can say well no all
the evil is aggregated conveniently in
the in the body of our enemy and this
would be potent in this particular case
you can Heap nothing but derisive
Hellfire and Scorn upon them and then
you're scot-free on that front too and
so all that's a little too convenient I
do think this interpretation by the way
of taking the lord's name in vain I
think it is in keeping with the original
intent of the formulators of The
Commandments because I've looked at a
lot of different translations and we
beat this idea to death in this seminar
and this notion that well and you could
it makes sense conceptually too right I
mean you can't imagine that there could
be a greater evil than doing the easy
thing for you and then claiming that
that's actually ordained by omniscience
omnipresence and omnipotence itself
that's right and I and I certainly think
your your conclusion makes a fair amount
of intuitive sense particularly if I
don't understand you to be saying uh
that blaspheming is also not a bad thing
I think blaspheming uh uh uh uh
desecrating the name of God is not
something that he smiles upon but I also
think there's a lot of Truth within what
you're describing and this can come into
Focus I I like the framework that you
put together when you think about
something like a national social credit
score like what they've been doing in
China
or with an ESG score as is starting to
exist in the corporate world if you can
assign yourself a number under uh
something that purports to be an
objective standard
that can dramatically accelerate the
degree to which you assign virtue to
yourself and other people like you and
provide an equally dangerous mechanism
by which you can assign evil to others
and that's why it's it's so important as
long as we're within the realm of
biblical teachings to also remember
admonitions about uh you know looking
first to remove the being from your own
eye before trying to remove the mode
from your neighbor's eye
right right yeah well that but I and I
also think that this this easy moral
virtue that we're describing does lift
that burden from people right and I can
understand why people want that burden
lifted because if it is a beam in your
eye and an emote and a beam by the way
for people listening is essentially a
log the in the biblical injunction there
is you might want to be assured to begin
with that you're a hell of a lot Blinder
than you think and that you're a
signation of evil to nothing but your
opponents is so unbelievably corrupt on
your part that you can hardly imagine it
and that's you know that's a very
shocking thing to realize in yourself if
you ever do realize that and it's no
wonder people want to avoid that but I
really do think it's the moral conundrum
of our time you know because you pointed
out you talked about esgs and social
credit scores and so forth because we're
also doing the same thing on a broader
on the broader metaphysical front so for
example there is a panoply of
environmental and economic concerns that
beset us
for example we've overfished the oceans
terribly and there's a variety of things
we're doing environmentally that are
less than wise a multitude of complex
problems that beset us that would
require some diligent effort and
sacrifice to set right as well as wading
through the cognitive complexity
necessary to actually detail out the
problems something that people like
Bjorn lomberger particularly good at
doing and instead what we do is we
collapse all of the apocalyptic threats
into a single threat and so that's the
threat of environmental disaster we
collapse the multitudinous causes of
environmental disaster into a single
variable which is carbon and then we
collapse all the necessity for pursuing
more moral virtue into doing nothing but
being opposed to carbon
and then we proceed merrily along our
way and there's something there's
something truly and catastrophically
dangerous about that particularly when
one of the consequences and we started
to see this unfold in Europe is that not
only do we put idiotic virtue signaling
policies in place that raise energy
costs for everyone
falling most heavily on the poor we make
energy much more unreliable than it has
been in the past we increase our
dependence on tyrants
um who the tyrants who control the
fossil fuel industry let's say outside
of the West and uh we actually increase
the amount of pollution we're producing
and so that's pretty much
um failure on all fronts including those
defined by the people who are putting
forth these propositions we see this on
the ESG front too environment uh what is
it social and governance this idea that
capitalists have a moral
um what there's a moral imperative for
capitalists to subsume their capitalist
Enterprise to a broader stakeholder
Vision which is essentially a vision of
State media
and corporate collusion and that virtue
is then defined as that I see that
happening on the ESG front is that there
are no shortage of people who've gained
the capitalist system out there those
are the sorts of people that you know
Russell Brand and Joel Rogan and Bernie
Sanders in his better moments object to
they've gamed the damn system a hundred
percent they've accrued a tremendous
amount of wealth through mechanisms that
are essentially corrupt they're guilty
as hell about it and now they're looking
for an easy moral out and and some of
that's genuine attempt to
deal with the guilt they actually have
and should have and some of it's just
for show but it's extraordinarily
dangerous we can make it for you into
that uh was it yesterday that a
resolution was passed
um tell me about the resolution that was
passed with regard to ESG policies in
the in the Senate and the house
yesterday right yes so there was a
regulation put out by the Biden
Administration uh trying to move ESG
forward in the way 401K accounts
retirement accounts are managed and
there is a process under something
called the Congressional review act that
allows us to pass a resolution
disapproving of it it's called the
resolution of disapproval that if passed
by both houses and submitted to the
president if it's unless it's vetoed by
the president then the regulation in
question gets taken down so both houses
pass it past it and it'll now have the
president's desk the president is widely
expected to veto that resolution and we
in all probability with the virtual
certainty will not have the two-thirds
super majorities in both houses
necessary to override that veto this
illustrates a problem within our system
of government and that we've allowed
executive branch regulations to make new
law and then uh the the way the
Congressional radio act is written
Congress has to undo it with the
acquiescence of the same president whose
administration put out the regulation to
begin with in our system of government
no one can make law you cannot make
federal law under Article 1 Section 1
and Article 1 Section 7 of The
Constitution without Congress passing
the same piece of legislation in the
house and of the Senate and then
presented to the president so we need to
flip that we need to take away the
ability of the executive branch to make
new law new policy uh tantamount to law
within the executive branch but this was
a good exercise with regard to ESG what
we've signaled is that a majority of the
house and a majority of the Senate
opposes ESG at least opposes forcing ESG
onto the American economy uh through
things like this
okay so just so people who are listening
are clear about this so
large companies Vanguard BlackRock Etc
who aggregate Pension funds primarily
but more than that so that would be the
Pension funds that all of you listening
and and watching are dependent on are
almost all of you your own personal
pension Investments
they have decided to subordinate the
interests of the companies
who's uh
whose Enterprises These funds are
invested in to the demands of the
climate apocalypse essentially so the
notion is well the environmental
catastrophe that besets us is so severe
that
mere fiduciary interest which would be
growing your pension is not sufficient
you have to adopt the
um the Net Zero Paris Accord goals and
your corporations have to devote
themselves to that and then in addition
it's not only on the environmental front
it's also on the social front which
means that corporations have to buy into
the entire diversity equity and
inclusivity movement which is
essentially a radical left-wing movement
or they're not doing their Duty properly
at the highest moral level now the
problem with that is that
the responsibility of investment funds
is to grow the is to preserve and grow
the Investments of the people who are
for example going to be dependent on
their pensions and that that shouldn't
be subordinated to any other interest
now the ESG pushers have said oh look we
can have our cake and eat it too because
if we invest
responsibly whatever the hell that means
we're actually going to see greater
returns now there's no empirical
evidence for that whatsoever in fact the
CEO of Vanguard in the last two weeks
Vanguard was doing was pushing the ESG
cart assiduously just like BlackRock the
Vanguard CEO came out and said that
there's no evidence whatsoever that ESG
investment outperforms non-esg
investment over any stretch of time and
so that's that whole story is starting
to fall apart but people should pay very
close attention to this because your
financial Futures at stake here the
ESG pushers Vanguard
somewhat less so now BlackRock State
Street Etc own 25 of the biggest 500
companies in the U.S these are major
league players and so the fact that
their gerrymandering gerrymandering
their financial responsibility in a very
crooked and underhanded way aggregating
the votes of all their individual
shareholders into their own hands and
using that to warp and demand the
structure of the market this has real
world consequences for virtually
everyone or anyone who has a pension
we might as well just go with that and
certainly many many investors other than
that and so that's another example of
this the pathology of this proclivity to
pursue under moral virtue you have these
great fund managers who are guilty about
their crookedness and so they're trying
to atone in a false Way by by pretending
to Ally with this radical leftist
narrative which is insanely Preposterous
to begin with they're doing that in a
way that's destructive to the financial
interests of the people they're supposed
to serve and uh they're doing that well
instead of doing the hard work of
actually trying to put their moral
houses in order anyways that was pushed
back against a bit in the last week by
now how many Democrats were in favor of
the disapproval measure in the Senate I
think it was two or three uh I'm gonna
have to check the final vote Talent yeah
there were two or three as at the moment
I voted who who were with us on that one
and uh and I'm not sure about in the
House of Representatives I assume they
were a small handful over there as well
but the right but there were some which
is very interesting yes that were that
there were any right and so they're
seeing this thing that that you're
describing which is that the these fund
managers are subverting the interests of
investors from truck drivers to teachers
from uh uh surgeons to service station
attendants uh people who have put their
retirement money into a fund and are
expecting a return or getting less of a
return than they would otherwise get
because they're betraying their
fiduciary obligation but
do not fear they they probably say to
themselves we're virtuous they assigned
this unearned moral virtue to themselves
and doing it and therefore say not only
is it not wrong for us to do this it
would be wrong for us not to do this and
people who don't do this are themselves
wrong and so we must crush them that's
what ESG is about it's not just about
them wanting to assign virtue to
themselves it's about wanting to crush
anyone who doesn't do that you see if
because if you don't crush them then
they will beat you in the competitive
race because they understand that what
they're doing is is is not going to make
them competitive in the free Marketplace
of ideas
right now you tangled up the Chinese
social credit system in this discussion
and so I figure we should unpack and
elaborate on that so one of the things
that gives a company competitive
Advantage for example with regards to
being
prioritized for loans under the ESG
framework is that they're they regulate
their activities so that they minimize
such things as their carbon footprint
their so-called carbon footprint and
they abide by these diversity equity and
inclusivity mandates that are radical
radically leftist in in the most
fundamental Manner and people still
might say well you know I don't have
time to think about this even if it has
to do with my pension but what people
should think about is that this is going
to start to affect them personally on
the personal front very very rapidly
because if corporations are held to
account on the moral front for their
um environmental footprint let's say and
their failure to comply with the
radically leftist dictates of the Dei
apparatus there's no reason at all to
assume that that's not going to be
extended to typical citizens and the
probability is very high that it's going
to be so for example if we put in place
digital currencies which we're trying to
do very diligently at the moment and
that's already happened to some degree
in the form of credit cards because
they're a digital currency of sorts then
what will happen and this is already
happening in places like China is that
all of your individual spending is going
to be assessed for its concordance with
these apocalyptic environmental goals
and your compliance with such things as
Dei as the Dei ethos and that if you
don't abide by those Norms you will be
punished but through taxation
um first of all through moral warnings
but then through taxation that's as
certain as the sun will rise tomorrow
and the there are already plans of foot
in all sorts of different domains on the
international governance front to ensure
that consumers do bear the brunt of
their anti-environment consuming
decisions and that'll mean Less meat
it'll mean lower number of calories per
day it'll mean something approximating
rationing because that's already being
contemplated in places like the UK it'll
certainly mean radical limitations on
private transportation ownership whether
that's a gas fossil fuel powered car or
an electric car because people who are
pushing this already know that we don't
have the power grid to support
widespread distribution of electric
vehicles it'll mean that you won't be
able to travel by air except insofar as
use you don't exceed your quota for air
travel and people might think that's all
conspiratorial but they could go and do
their own research and find out very
rapidly that it's not conspiratory at
all
and so that's all part of this problem
of the demand by the top-down globalist
utopian types to accrue to themselves
under moral virtue it's like we're going
to regulate your behavior to a swash our
guilt and that's a that is an absolutely
appalling
sin let's say to put it very bluntly and
so it was heartening to see that some
Democrats even are starting to alert
themselves to the fact that you know
this might not be in anyone's interest
our entire system is built up on the
idea in fact the American Experience
from the beginning has been built around
the idea that danger Dangerous things
happen with the excessive accumulation
of power in the hands of the few that's
true in government especially it also
has its own manifestations in the
business world that's why American
antitrust laws are built up around
consumer protection they're built up
around ensuring consumer choice because
when consumers have options there is
competition and competition tends to
bring down prices and increase quality
when any of those things are destroyed
that is when the the levers we have in
place to control to protect us against
the dangerous accumulation of power even
either in government
or in business uh the the Common Man and
the common woman suffers uh and
ultimately all of society suffers what
you have with the ESG movement is
something that could easily combine the
the the the worst of the accumulation of
power in business and the accumulation
of power in government into one so there
they understand that uh they're running
working against the clock they're
they're on a collision course with
reality unless they can somehow get
government to strap on the ESG effort
and to make it the government's own
because otherwise uh ESG and the United
States could face a demise as a result
of antitrust actions because ultimately
the ESG agreements uh presuppose
agreements not to compete you've got
entities saying we're not going to
compete in this way for these customers
let's all agree that we're not going to
do that and exclude anyone who doesn't
that's illegal in fact that carries
potentially criminal penalties under
antitrust laws uh and then they could
also face lawsuits from shareholders
whose value has been diminished as a
result of a betrayal of their fiduciary
obligation to their investors
both of those things could find their
antidote in government again taking on
the uh the uh they are taking on the
objective of ESG and mandating it
through reporting requirements
immunizing it in one way or another
refusing to to uh go after people who
have engaged in agreements not to
compete and that's why this vote
yesterday was so important it was one of
the first volleys in the war about
incorporating ESG into government
strapping it on the apparatus of
government and forcing it on the
American people even though it is likely
to be vetoed I think that veto uh is
going to lead to a lot of change because
I think a lot of Americans are tired of
this thing people who in the past maybe
even voted consistently Democratic are
being frustrated by this as well they
should be
so over what time span is this process
going to unfold
I think it'll happen over the next two
years I think it'll end up being a big
uh topic of discussion between Governor
DeSantis president Trump and the other
Republicans running for president I
think all of them are going to latch
onto this and present it to the American
people as hey we know you don't want
this we don't we know you you don't want
your entire fate decided by this awful
combination of a few big corporate
Titans on Wall Street and a small
handful of executive branch bureaucrats
in Washington so let's do it a different
way let's let the free market work and
let's let's let our system of government
work so that power isn't dangerously
combined in the hands of the few
right well that's a true fascism that
that Union Yes corporate and government
and media interests at the very Pinnacle
of power it's what fascism means it's
the definition right well in it if
antifa was the real thing that's what
they would be or that would that's what
they would be opposing right now and so
so how about the veto uh
um decision over what time span will
that unfold in relationship to Biden
he's got 10 days 10 days to to veto it I
suspect it won't take it long okay
okay so that's coming down the pipelines
very quickly well one of the
presidential candidates Vivek ramaswamy
has made much of his career out of
battle against ESG corporate government
collusion right they set up the strive
funds which are analogs of I think the
BlackRock investment strategy
essentially that but with issuing
entirely any ESG governance requirements
and he's had a fair bit of success with
that in the free market and is certainly
making that Central to his platform for
presidency so I'm going to release a
discussion I had with Vivek on this
channel this is definitely going to be a
Hot Topic it's too bad because it's
quite Arcane it's hard for people who
are
not centrally involved on the economic
or financial or political front to
understand why something as apparently
mundane as whatever constitutes ESG
might have real world consequences for
them it's hard to make it a you know a
trenchant point in the imagination of
Americans but it's a good thing to try
to alert people to just exactly how
dangerous this is and exactly what's at
stake for them the subversion of their
savings to a radical anti-human
environmentalist apocalyptic agenda
allied with this radical leftist
approach to
the amelioration of social problems
Equity diversity and inclusivity make no
mistake about it ladies and gentlemen
that's precisely what ESG mandates do
and that's exactly their purpose their
conscious purpose and that is exactly
their outcome and so okay so Mike please
go ahead and the American people are not
dumb they may they may have a lot on
their hand chance a lot of things to
accomplish and therefore not a lot of
time to delve into exactly how ESG works
or what it is but they're not dumb and
they're smart and they intuitively know
that it's not a good thing to have a
small handful of corporate Elites making
decisions that will make life more
difficult for them making life more
expensive and less lucrative in terms of
any Investments they may have and so
they get that and they also get the fact
that these big business Elites who are
being facilitated uh who want to be
facilitated by a government that wants
to help them in in making the people
less poor American people don't take
kindly to that and that's why I think we
win this at the end of the day but it's
going to require some effort and some
explanation as to how this works
right well DeSantis has been pushing
hard back against ESG with certain
amount of success and there's other
states that are starting to join in that
fight the uh the association of Chief
Financial officers State Chief Financial
officers I think there's 28 States
involved in that Enterprise they're also
um vociferously vociferous critics of
the ASG movement and so there is
gathering there is gathering impetus on
that front so that's a good thing to see
so what's what are your plans for Action
at the current moment like what how are
you setting your priorities and how
would you describe them to the people
who are watching and listening look my
priorities always uh stem ultimately
from a desire to restore the
Constitution's twin structural
protections uh twin structural
protections one operates vertically uh
we call it federalism it defines the
relationship between our national
government the federal government of the
United States and the states and their
political subdivisions like cities towns
and counties
the other is horizontal and it defines
the relationship between the executive
branch headed by the president the
legislative branch where I work uh
Congress and at the judicial branch that
interprets the laws headed by the
Supreme Court we've drifted far since
the mid to late 1930s in this country
from both the vertical protection of
federalism and the horizontal protection
of separation of powers we have done
that as part of this effort to
consolidate government power into the
hands of the few what it's done is it's
taken power away from these states and
localities and moved it to Washington
and then within Washington we've taken
lawmaking power the power to set federal
policy embodied in law and hand it over
to unelected unaccountable bureaucrats
or in some cases the president himself
all of this has endured to the benefit
of the wealthy the well-connected the
political class but it's been harmful to
everyone else you know as of a few years
ago a disproportionate number of the
wealthiest counties in the entire United
States were suburbs of Washington DC
this is an area that manufactures
nothing there are no gold mines here is
it's not a technological innovation Hub
necessarily the money is here because
the power is here concentrated in the
hands of a few Elites So to that end
I've been pushing for years a reform
that I'm going to push aggressively in
this Congress a series of reforms
sometimes known under the banner of The
reigns act that would require that
anytime an executive branch regulation
in effect a law put out by an executive
branch bureaucrat for that to take
effect if the rains act were to be
passed it would have to first pass both
houses of Congress and then be signed
into law by the president otherwise
you're circumventing the whole process
I'm going to be pushing that over and
over again I'm going to be subdividing
it out incorporating many Reigns acts
into other legislative Provisions
whether we're talking about a farm bill
or a general Appropriations bill or
something else I I want to see executive
branch Authority uh subjected to a
review by Congress and to not take
effect absent Congress enacting it into
law
and do you are you optimistic about your
chances on that front how is that battle
progressing and can you detail out a
little bit more how it is that the
specific changes that you're making on
the legislative front would in principle
limit the continued growth and expansion
of this centralized power elite that
you're describing it would decentralize
power to a very significant degree it
would do so for the simple reason that
as Congress has to vote on things uh say
like the the clean power plan rule uh
something like that or the Waters of the
United States rule these are all uh
well-known uh large-scale executive
branch edicts issued over the last few
years that have a dramatic economic
impact on the American people
uh as as those things get noticed by the
people and as they have more and more of
an economic impact As Americans realize
that they're shelling out an additional
two to three trillion dollars a year
every year uh an increased cost of goods
and services diminish wages unemployment
and underemployment because of this
Outsourcing of government they're not
going to be tolerant of Congress just
letting the executive branch continue to
make laws more importantly once we get
things like this passed Congress won't
have the temerity it won't have the the
the the the crazed uh megalomania
necessary to inflict uh patently bad
policies that are going to hurt the
American people on the American people
and there will be accountability for
those who vote for them uh this coupled
with the fact that we'd have to cast
more votes on more topics some of which
would be controversial would I believe
ultimately in order to the the benefit
of the people as Congress would say you
know what we don't have to weigh in on
every area we're supposed to be a
limited purpose national government
established for the purpose of uh uh uh
adopting laws on National Defense
weights and measures trademarks
copyrights and patents regulating trade
or commerce between the states
and and foreign countries
um and there are a few other powers but
it's a it's a relatively small box that
those fit into
we have made our federal government
almost a general purpose national
government and once we've done that
Congress has not wanted to cast all the
the votes that would have to cast so
we've outsourced the actual thinking on
that to the so-called experts this is
the pipe dream of the Progressive
Movement we're going to have government
by experts and those experts will rule
us without the
um without the interference of the
unwashed masses as they see it right
yeah without the messiness yeah well so
a couple of comments on the
psychological front relationship to that
it's like
first of all
you might ask yourself well why wouldn't
it be a good thing for a centralized
federal government to offer largesse to
its populace
and I would say well first of all that's
actually very unlikely because that's a
difficult thing to manage and there's no
real evidence that centralized
governments have done a credible job of
that in the last 150 years and there's
plenty of counter evidence the more
widespread that attempt the more likely
it is to end cataclysmically but then
there's another thing to consider too
for everyone who's watching and
listening is that you know a lot of what
gives your life meaning at the
individual level and the family level
and the local community level the town
level the state level all of that is the
adoption of responsibility that's
requisite for your level in the
hierarchy
you know and you might say well what the
president does with his time is much
more important than what the local
plumber does with his time but I'm not
so sure that's true at all you know each
individual has their bailiwick of divine
responsibility and so does each couple
and so does each family and so does each
Community all the way up that hierarchy
of responsibility and if we devolve
power and responsibility up to the
highest echelons of government we Denude
our own lives of of psychological
significance and meaning and that's all
found through the adoption of
responsibility we also run a foul of the
distributed intelligence that all sorts
of local decision makers allow for right
because you should be dealing with those
things that are right in front of you
because you're the only person that can
see them and if you seed that power to
abstract authorities they blunder around
stupidly like blind Giants
so one of the things that conservatives
can consider you know I've had a lot of
success with this on the lecture front
is that I've made the case continually
in my talks around the world that's
about 400 of them now that the
sustaining meaning in people's lives is
developed as a consequence of the
adoption of maximal personal
responsibility so there's a direct
relationship between responsibility and
sustaining meaning and then if you seed
that to authorities above you in the
hopes that they'll deliver you from the
hands of your enemies you know genuine
and metaphysical then you actually
exhaust your you exhaust the
possibilities of your life and you you
leave yourself with something like a
sterile shell you know and conservatives
could do a lot better job on that front
of communicating that to young people
it's like don't look to the government
to save you partly because you should be
saving yourselves right you should be
putting in the effort as an individual
as the member of a couple as the member
of family to setting your own house in
order and if you allow others to
intercede on your behalf you put
yourself in a state of like childhood
abject childhood dependence and slavery
and that's and you develop tyrants
around you too it's a really bad
solution
yes absolutely uh you know my my friend
Arthur Brooks has written a lot on this
topic on the on the topic of uh finding
Joy including uh
happiness as it relates to one's
profession one's work in life and he
said that um
if I'm remembering it correctly to have
happiness associated with one's work one
needs to have a job that's sufficiently
difficult and complex that that it's not
monotonous uh that has it presents at
least the opportunity for Upward
Mobility for uh for for getting ahead
whether you actually realize that fast
forward right right even if you don't
realize that or send at the highest
levels the the the possibility of it is
a significant factor and then there has
to be a a close Nexus between the amount
of effort or work someone puts into it
and their ability to ascend and so it
when those factors are in place people
find enjoyment and and happiness in
their lives and their work coincides
well with their lives if on the other
hand you're made an object to be acted
upon as happens to whatever degree a
government incorporates and Embraces
socialism then then you really are the
the object to be acted upon by the
government you're not the hammer you're
the nail with government being the
hammer somebody else is deciding your
fate deciding the circumstances in which
you and your family find yourselves and
it doesn't contribute to happiness we've
also found that it's it's not an
efficient means of running anything and
so there ends up being less wealth less
Prosperity overall and so as you
mentioned over the last 150 years I
can't think of a single example
where uh on a large scale uh something
tantamount to socialism has made people
better off but I can think of a whole
lot of examples where lots of people
have died from hunger and other maladies
that are directly traceable to that kind
of system of government so it's yet
another reason to issue socialism you
know when uh when Alexis to tocqueville
took his tour in the early 1830s through
America trying to explain why the
American Revolution worked you might put
it where the French Revolution hadn't
worked as well uh one of the things that
he observed is that a government that is
this brooding omnipresence over its
citizenry uh it ends up being
um a keeper of people much like a farmer
is a keeper of of sheep and if you want
your citizens to grow up like farm
animals and to not have as much of their
own will their own initiative their own
enjoyment uh then that's how you would
do it otherwise the government needs to
not play that role cool and I I think
that's been one of the secrets to
America's success is that our form of
government was designed specifically to
avoid that kind of accumulation of power
right right well we could we could
discuss that technically too you know
there's two forms of reward
technically speaking there's satiation
that's the reward that you might
experience let's say after consuming uh
you know
um uh well-provisioned Thanksgiving
feast and basically what you do when
you're satiated is drift off drift off
into unconsciousness
right you're prone to sleep because
everything is satisfied that's the same
word as satiated and that is one form of
contentment
but what people generally regard as
happiness is a different form of reward
and happiness emerges in that Arthur
Brooks fashion that you just described
is that people experience enthusiasm and
joy hope engagement meaning so forth
when they see themselves advancing
towards a valued goal and that means
they have to have their own personally
valued goals so their own domain of
expertise and striving and then the
landscape has to be open so that they
can see themselves moving forward and
uphill and the joy that sustains people
in large part is a consequence of the
chemical consequences of that form of
advancement you know so the drugs of
abuse that attract people like cocaine
and amphetamines and so forth activate
the systems that indicate Pathways
forward and up
and so you do want to constitute your
country so that people have the
opportunity for forward movement that's
well that's the frontier myth in some
sense that allowed your country to be
settled
in in the first place to be settled in
in the manner that it was settled and so
the notion that what the government
should do is provide large yes so we can
all become satiated infants is a damn
it's it's the kind of state you want to
inculcate if you wanted everybody to be
unconscious and asleep and you regarded
that as the highest form of human
achievement instead of being alert and
striving and awake and walking
consciously uphill
and so it's necessary to distribute all
that responsibility and power down the
hierarchy to the most local levels
possible it is the antidote to tyranny
and to slavery and so I wish you success
in your attempts to make that case to
your colleagues and to the public at
large are you optimistic about the
possibility of success for your Ventures
look um for reasons that escape me we
haven't had as many Democrats jump on
board with the ideas I I would have
hoped I do think it's coming it's coming
at some point and so that's why I'm
breaking this rains act approach into
smaller pieces to see if I can work it
into other legislation we might not be
able to get it for the whole whole
government but we might be able to get
it in this or that agency or this or
that department uh at least in in
specified ways and once we become more
comfortable with that I I think there's
a real opportunity uh to get it in there
there also may be some opportunities in
connection with debt ceiling increased
discussions spending Bill discussions in
order to bring in a shorter term version
of Something Like The Rains act and once
the American people see this and see
this in motion I think they're going to
like it and I think it will prove to be
popular and I I it it's with very good
reason the American people many of them
feel very distant from their national
government with good reason it is itself
distant from where most of them live
physically but it's also outside the
hands of many of the people they just
elected to make their laws
if I had a nickel for every time the
following scenario unfolds an executive
branch agency makes a new law is laws
many of them carry criminal penalties
they are otherwise enforceable against
the American people they are for all
intents and purposes laws they make a
new law and then
constituents write letters saying uh or
make phone calls saying hey this is
killing us this is making it impossible
for us to run our business uh it's
irrational what do we do members of
Congress are notorious for writing back
saying you know dear sir dear Madam uh
those barbarians over there at that
agency X Y or Z they're barbarians and
and I'm I'm going to write them the
agency a harshly worded letter and
that's most of the time the end of it
the American people have been sold short
on this they have had their birth rights
sold out from underneath them as the
task of law making has been outsourced
to people who cannot be fired this is
the closest thing to despotism that
America has ever seen and once the
American people realize what's been
happening over the last eight and a half
decades uh they're going to demand this
okay well we also we can tangle up the
first part of our talk with the last
part then and say well all of the excess
spending and emergency procurement on
the part of the Russia Ukraine conflict
as well as the war against environmental
degradation is producing more and more
concentration of power in the hands of
fewer and fewer people at the corporate
government level and that's a recipe for
tyranny for sure it's also a recipe for
the kind of slavery that that deprives
people of their requisite responsibility
and therefore their Destiny and so that
seems bad on all fronts unless you want
to be an unconscious infant and so
that's also a pretty dismal view of of
the of what would you call it the Great
Adventure of humanity so all right
Senator Lee we covered a lot of
territory today wandering through the
complexities of the Russia Ukraine
and broader Western proxy war that's one
bloody abysmal uh Chasm to glance into
and I really appreciate the fact that
you were willing to speak forthrightly
about it today as I'm sure the people
who are listening
um will also appreciate thank you to all
of you who are listening and paying
attention and I hope you keep listening
and paying attention because there's a
lot at stake here more right now than
perhaps there ever has been in some real
sense so to the Daily wire plus folks
who facilitated this conversation thank
you the film crew here in Winnipeg
because I'm in Winnipeg today uh much
appreciated and
um I'm going to flip over now to the
Daily wire plus platform and talk to
Senator Lee for another 20 minutes to
half an hour about issues related to our
discussion today but
um if you would like to join us there
and provide some support to the Daily
Word plus folks that would be useful if
you're inclined and so thanks again
Senator Lee it's always a pleasure
talking to you pleasure is blind thank
you
hello everyone I would encourage you to
continue listening to my conversation
with my guest on dailywireplus.com